this is a special edition of weather
scope with the latest winter storm
update
well the blizzard of 1996 is winding
down in the mid-atlantic states of
cities like Philadelphia Washington DC
and Richmond can breathe easier but it's
still blowing pretty hard in the
northeastern United States New York City
still very cold and windy snow has led
ups not coming down like what it was but
it's still a real mess across most of
southern New England and interior
southeastern New York State let's take
you to the history of our storm and show
you the swath of snow that blanketed the
ground for a Missouri to Kentucky and
then right up through the Appalachian
Xand into the northeastern United States
where you see the wide areas we've had
over a foot of snowfall but in the
purple areas we have seen over two feet
of snow we've had reports a one to two
feet of snow and from southern Indiana
into the mountains of West Virginia
where we had reports of up to 37 inches
of snow powdered snow it snowshoe so the
skiing is just great now in the big
cities we did find very heavy snows
incredible snows in Philadelphia
Washington DC New York New York and
Providence Connecticut and the
Providence Rhode Island and now in
Boston Mass the snows continue to pile
up slowly but surely destroyed the rate
of one to two inches an hour and through
the southern New England states as we
take a look at the record snowfall
yesterday the snow was coming down three
to three four inches an hour and just an
incredible 29 and a half inches in
Philadelphia record 24 hours snows there
Roanoke Lynchburg Cincinnati claim we
did have some record snows - I do
believe around Newark in New Jersey and
of course at the airports the all types
of snow and went just some terrible
conditions and all these airports are
closed and a lot of them are saying just
forget about it for today and they'll be
evaluating at 6:00 p.m. tonight so we
certainly do advise you check with your
favorite airline and see the status of
your flight now let's go to the to the
capital Plaza there we're going to go
right out to to the nation's capital and
I can see Jeff Mauro there clearly today
and Jeff has a big smile on his face so
that gives us a clue that this storm
must be winding down Jeff you're exactly
right Marc the storm has pretty much
wound down except for the wind and the
cold air that's being brought in on
those strong west and northwesterly
winds so the wind chill factor still a
bit of a problem here today and we're
going to have
blowing and drifting which is going to
cause some problems with some of the
roadways particularly ones that have not
been plowed or even the ones that have
been plowed are probably going to drift
back shut so they're gonna have a bit of
a problem keeping those roads open
speaking of open nothing is open here
basically in the nation's capital we
have all the government shutdown federal
and the city government shut down all
the schools are closed and as you
mentioned the airport shut down too so
kind of a city on hold at the present
time because of mother nature all right
thank you very much Jeff and we'll be
hearing from Jeff throughout the day I'm
also hear from Jill Jill Braun in New
York City that snows moved away from DC
but now it's slid all the way down into
Norfolk and northeast North Carolina
where it's getting a little bit slick
let's show you the storm with our
satellite picture and as we show you
that visible picture you can see a nice
swirl here off to the south of New
England that is the center of our low
and I'll tell you this it's just kind of
creeping and crawling off to the east
here and the moisture is just pouring in
to southern New England and head itself
down the Atlantic coast here as we show
you our surface map you can see the low
well-defined there of the big red L and
that continues to move right along the
direction of that purple line their
circulation quite strong around the
storm isobars tightly-packed winds have
been gusting say 35 to about Oh 50 miles
an hour so a lot of blowing and drifting
of the snow as we show you the radar
look at the snow it's all the way from
Boston through New York City Philly
again it's ended though in DC where Jeff
is and it's coming right down into
Northeast North Carolina heaviest of the
snows though coming up through the New
England states
this being right over here in western
mass to south of Albany there it's just
about stationary it's 93 to 1 to 2
inches an hour and we'll probably wind
at one to two feet of snow and through
here and it's a blowing and snowing
pretty hard just south side of Boston
and this is all snow down here in the
Cape as the winds are coming in out of
the north around New York City there was
a little break now that break is gone
there you can see the snow Philadelphia
last gasp of snow DC the snows moving
out everything here sliding off to the
southeast so this is the backlash snow
but with a lot of wind there'll be a lot
of blowing of this very light snow and
accumulations will be minor here
the North Carolina line here and there's
Norfolk and this is all snow and it's
all sliding southeast and we've had
reports about one to about two inches of
snow through here already so it'll be
very slick if you're traveling the
Richmond down towards Norfolk today so
Matt is the scene with the radars
snowfall key